Hi welcome back in this video we're going to look at getting a cursor from the connection from pool
.
And the reason why we're looking at this is if we go into the User class we've got some more duplicate
code.
I want to get rid of we've got these with connection from pool and connection and then immediately after
with connection dot cursor askers and we have that again down here and we're going to have that every
time that we actually want to do something with the connection the connection itself doesn't really
do anything except give us a cursor and give us the ability to commit.
That means if you remember correctly we can insert data into the connection and then insert more data
and more data and then commit and then it will write all the data at the same time.
And that is good because it's efficient.
However this is not good because it's inefficiently duplicated.
So if we just get a cursor and then we execute something and then we immediately commits that connection
and close it we lose the ability to insert multiple things and then commit them all at once.
If we only use the cursor we're going to look at doing exactly that.
Do remember that there is that small problem and we're going to explore that again at the end of the
video.
Let's go into the database class and I'm going to make the changes first and then explain the changes
to you.
I'm going to rename this connection from pool class to the cursor from connection from Apple.
This is very construed is not a good name.
OK we're going to look into that later on as well.
Now the connection is going to be done in the in each method we are going to initialize that property
but we're also going to initialize the cursor selve the cursor equals none in the entire method.
We're going to get a connection from the pool.
And we're also going to get a cursor
from the connection.
So we get the connection first and then we get a cursor from it just like we do.
He uses the with statement and the only thing that does is he creates the variable cursor equals connection
to a cursor and at the end of the with clause it closes the cursor.
We can do that manually as well.
Now instead of returning self-conviction we can return self the cursor and at the end of the statement
we're going to close the cursor
and then we're going to commit to the connection and then we're going to return into the pool.
So what does this mean for us.
Why is this a good thing.
Well now in the User we can say with cursor from connection from pool we have to import natural number
as cursor
and that saves us some lines of code.
And similarly down here we can do the same
.
Notice that I am adhering to the python's standard of having four spaces for spaces after a COLANERI
after a call on your code should be indented four spaces.
If not it doesn't belong inside that clause.
So this code here.
All of it is inside the with clause.
If I press backspace then this code is inside the with clause but this one isn't some use Romola.
So this is simpler.
It's good.
We now are able to get a cursor directly from the pool as opposed to get an air connection first and
then the cursor from it.
We're always going to want to do that anyway.
And yes that's true.
We're always going to get into that.
But now when we get a cursor from a connection we we get the cursor.
That's all good.
And then at the end we close it and we compete.
So we no longer are able to perform multiple operations with the same cursor.
So we've lost a bit of that flexibility.
Something to remember if your application requires a lot of rights to the database if you need to insert
a lot of data then doing this may not be the best thing.
Something else that we lose is the ability to roll back a connection which is not something we've looked
at yet.
A connection rollback means all of the data is stored in this connection deleted for example see we
insert something into the user table that is incorrect.
And then we get an error and sequel doesn't quite manage to fix itself or something along those lines
.
So we want to delete all the data that we've put in the connection then we would do a connection rollback
And here is where these three parameters of the exit method come into play.
These x x.
See X x.
C underscore vowel.
So I can speak now actually type easy TB.
These are exception type exception value exception traceback.
That's what they are.
And basically if an error happens during the with clause if an error happens while inserting this here
then we get the type of the error the value stored in that era and the traceback.
Basically a long message explaining what the error where the error happened for that error that happened
inside the with clause.
And that's very useful.
It means that if an error happens we can deal with it in the with clause or optionally we can just say
I don't want to deal with this error.
And if we don't want to deal with the error then the application will crash.
So just remember that we do want to deal with the error.
We want to see if there was an error rollback the connection because we don't know what happened and
we don't want to risk it.
So if acception value is not None.
Basically if the exception value does contain is it is something other than none.
Then selve dot connection dot rollback else do the other stuff.
Sorry not this.
We always want to put the connection back.
Once we roll the connection back then that connection is essentially blank.
We can put it back in the pool and that's not a problem.
So if the exception value is not none that means that an exception did happen and then this can be something
like e.g. type error attribute error value error that sort of stuff.
You know standard error classes error object if the exception value is not none meaning there was an
error.
Roll the connection back.
And if it was none then close the cursor commit that connection.
Everything is good.
There was no error
and at it we're able now to get a cursor directly from this class as opposed to going through the connection
and then the cursor so as remove some duplicate code it makes it easier for us to create our with clauses
.
So that's great.
And that's it for this video so I'll be seeing you in the next one.